1. List three data sources Power BI can connect to.

Power BI can connect to:

Microsoft Excel

SQL Server Database

Web pages (URLs)


2. What is the first step to import data into Power BI Desktop?

Click “Home” → “Get Data” and choose the data source (like Excel, CSV, SQL Server, etc.).


3. How do you refresh imported data in Power BI?
Go to the “Home” tab and click “Refresh”. This pulls the latest data from your connected sources.

4. What file formats can Power BI import directly? (Name two.)

.xlsx (Excel)

.csv (Comma-separated values)


5. What does the "Navigator" window show after selecting a data source?
It shows available tables, sheets, or file contents (depending on the source), and lets you preview and select what to import.

6. Import Sales_Data.csv and load only the "Product" and "Price" columns.

Steps:

Home → Get Data → Text/CSV → Select Sales_Data.csv

In the Navigator preview, click “Transform Data”

In Power Query, remove all other columns except “Product” and “Price”

Click “Close & Load”


7. How would you change OrderDate to a date format during import?

In Power Query:

Click the column OrderDate

Use Transform → Data Type → Date

This ensures it’s treated as a date for visuals, filtering, and calculations.




8. What is the difference between "Load" and "Transform Data" in the import dialog?

Load: Directly brings the data into Power BI as-is.

Transform Data: Opens Power Query to clean, filter, or reshape data before loading.



9. Why might you see an error when connecting to a SQL database? (Name one reason.)

Incorrect server name, credentials, or the database is offline/unreachable.

Authentication errors are also common.



10. How do you replace a data source after importing it?

Go to Home → Transform Data → Data Source Settings

Select the old source → Click “Change Source…”

Update the file path or server name


11. Write the M-code to import only rows where Quantity > 1.
m
= Table.SelectRows(Source, each [Quantity] > 1)


12. How would you change the data source if Sales_Data.csv changed?

Go to Transform Data → Data Source Settings

Find the CSV → Click “Change Source…” and browse to the new file.


13. Troubleshoot: Your CSV import fails due to a "mixed data type" error—how do you fix it?

In Power Query, manually set the column data types

Select the column → Use Transform → Data Type

Alternatively, use Text type to prevent conversion issues.



14. Connect to a live SQL database with parameters (e.g., filter by year).

Go to Home → Get Data → SQL Server

Enter server/database name → Use DirectQuery

In Power Query:

Add a parameter for Year

Use Table.SelectRows to filter by that Year

This keeps the connection live and dynamic



15. How would you automate data imports using Power BI and Power Automate?

You can:

Use Power Automate to trigger a Power BI dataset refresh automatically (e.g., when a file is updated in OneDrive/SharePoint)

Use templates like: “Refresh Power BI dataset when a file is modified in OneDrive”

Needs Power BI service and Pro license for automation.
